now when he had finished speaking to
soul the soul of Jonathan was knit to
the soul of David and Jonathan loved him
as his own soul Saul took him that day
and would not let him go home to his
father's house anymore then Jonathan and
David made a covenant because he loved
him as his own soul and Jonathan took
off the robe that was on him and gave it
to David with his Armour even to his
sword and his bow and his belt so David
went out wherever Saul sent him and
behaved wisely and Saul set him over the
man of war and he was accepted in the
sight of all the people and also in the
sight of Saul's servants now it had
happened as they were coming home when
David was returning from the slaughter
of the Philistine that the women had
come out of all the cities of Israel
singing and dancing to meet King Saul
the tambourines with joy and with
musical instruments so the women sang as
they danced and said David his ten
thousands and Saul was very angry and
the saying displeased him they have
ascribed to David ten thousands and to
me they have ascribed only thousands now
what more can he have but the kingdom so
Saul I David from that day forward and
it happened on the next day that the
distressing spirit from God came upon
soul and he prophesied inside the house
so David played music with his hand as
at other times but there was a spear in
Saul's hand and said I'll cast the spear
for he said I will pin David to the wall
but David escaped his presence twice now
Saul was afraid of David because the
Lord was with him but had departed from
Saul
therefore salt removed him from his
presence and made him his captain over a
thousand and he went out and came in
before the people and David behaved
wisely in all his ways and the Lord was
with him therefore when Saul saw that he
behaved very wisely he was afraid of him
but all Israel and Judah loved David
because he went out and came in before
them then Saul said to David here is my
older daughter mihrab I will give it to
you as a wife only be valiant for me and
fight the Lord's battles for Saul
thought let my hand not be against him
but at the end of the Philistines be
against him
so David said to Saul Who am I and what
is my life or my father's family in
Israel that I should be son-in-law to
the king but it happened at the time
when me Repsol's daughter should have
been given to David that she was given
to Adriel the mahalo fight as a wife now
Michal Saul's daughter loved David and
they told Saul and the thing pleased him
so Saul said and I will give it to him
that she may be a snare to him the hand
of the Philistines may be against him
therefore Saul said to David a second
time
you shall be my son-in-law today and saw
commanded his servants communicate with
David secretly and say look a king has
delight in you and all his servants love
you now therefore become the King's
son-in-law
so Saul's servants spoke those words in
the hearing of David and David said does
it seem to you a light thing to be a
king's son-in-law seeing I am a poor and
lightly esteemed man and the servants of
Saul told him in this manner David spoke
thus you shall say to David the King
does not desire any dowry but 100
foreskins of the Philistines to take
vengeance on the king's enemies but saul
thought to make david fall by the hand
of the Philistines so when his servants
told David these words it please David
well to become the King's son-in-law now
the days had not expired
therefore David arose and went he and
his men and killed two hundred men
the Philistines and David brought their
foreskins and they gave them in full
camp to the king that he might become
the King's son-in-law
and Saul gave him Michael his daughter
as a wife
the Saul's saw and knew that the Lord
was with David and that Michael Saul's
daughter loved him and Saul was still
more afraid of David so Saul became
David's enemy continually then the
princes of the Philistines went out to
war and so it was whenever they went out
that David behaved more wisely than all
the servants of Saul so that his name
became highly esteemed
you